Now that you have an Azure Storage account, you can create a container for blob data.

    Download the product1.json JSON file from https://aka.ms/product1.json and save it on your computer (you can save it in any folder - you'll upload it to blob storage later).

    If the JSON file is displayed in your browser, save the page as product1.json.

    In the Azure portal page for your storage container, on the left side, in the Data storage section, select Containers.

    In the Containers page, select ＋ Container and add a new container named data with a public access level of Private (no anonymous access).

    When the data container has been created, verify that it's listed in the Containers page.

    In the pane on the left side, in the top section, select Storage browser (preview). This page provides a browser-based interface that you can use to work with the data in your storage account.

    In the storage browser page, select Blob containers and verify that your data container is listed.

    Select the data container, and note that it's empty.

    Select ＋ Add Directory and read the information about folders before creating a new directory named products.

    In storage explorer, verify that the current view shows the contents of the products folder you just created - observe that the "breadcrumbs" at the top of the page reflect the path Blob containers > data > products.

    In the breadcrumbs, select data to switch to the data container, and note that it does not contain a folder named products.

    Folders in blob storage are virtual, and only exist as part of the path of a blob. Since the products folder contained no blobs, it isn't really there!

    Use the ⤒ Upload button to open the Upload blob panel.

    In the Upload blob panel, select the product1.json file you saved on your local computer previously. Then in the Advanced section, in the Upload to folder box, enter product_data and select the Upload button.

    Close the Upload blob panel if it's still open, and verify that a product_data virtual folder has been created in the data container.

    Select the product_data folder and verify that it contains the product1.json blob you uploaded.

    On the left side, in the Data storage section, select Containers.

    Open the data container, and verify that the product_data folder you created is listed.

    Select the ‧‧‧ icon at the right-end of the folder, and note that it doesn't display any options. Folders in a flat namespace blob container are virtual, and can’t be managed.

    Use the X icon at the top right in the data page to close the page and return to the Containers page.
